In 1986, MI6 agents James Bond and Alec Trevelyan infiltrate a Soviet chemical weapons facility in Arkhangelsk. Trevelyan is seemingly caught and killed by Colonel Arkady Grigorovich Ourumov, the facility's commanding officer, while Bond manages to destroy the site before escaping.
While undergoing an assessment nine years later, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Bond attempts to prevent Xenia Onatopp, a member of the Janus crime syndicate, from stealing a Eurocopter Tiger attack helicopter during a military demonstration in Monte Carlo, but fails. Returning to London, Bond oversees MI6 staff monitoring an incident in Severnaya,[nb 1] Siberia, after the stolen helicopter turns up at a radar facility there. An electromagnetic pulse blast suddenly hits the site, destroying it and three Russian fighter jets sent to investigate a distress call, while knocking out all satellite systems in orbit above.
The newly-appointed female M assigns Bond to investigate, after it is determined the blast came from a Soviet-era satellite armed with a nuclear electromagnetic pulse space-based weapon, codenamed "GoldenEye". Although Janus is suspected of initiating the attack, Bond suspects Ourumov, now a general, had involvement due to the weapon system requiring high-level military access. Travelling to Saint Petersburg, Bond is advised by his CIA contact Jack Wade to meet former KGB agent-turned-gangster Valentin Zukovsky, a former Bond villain, and have him arrange a meeting with Janus. Escorted to the meeting by Onatopp, Bond discovers that Janus is led by Trevelyan (scarred following the attack at Arkhangelsk), having faked his death at Arkhangelsk, and learns he is descended from the Cossacks who were repatriated to the Soviet Union after collaboration with the Axis powers during World War II.
Learning that Trevelyan seeks revenge against Britain for betraying his parents, who survived the purge but killed themselves out of shame, Bond is sedated before he can kill him, and trapped in the stolen Tiger alongside Natalya Simonova, a survivor of the Severnaya attack. Despite escaping before the helicopter's missiles destroy it, the pair are captured by Russian troops and taken before Russian Minister of Defence Dimitri Mishkin for interrogation. The heated argument between the men leads Natalya to prove Ourumov's involvement in the use of GoldenEye, revealing that fellow programmer Boris Grishenko survived along with her, and is now working for Janus in operating a second GoldenEye satellite. Before Mishkin can act on the information, Ourumov arrives and kills him. Bond escapes, pursuing Ourumov to rescue Natalya. The chase leads to a missile train used by Janus, in which Bond kills Ourumov, before escaping from the train with Natalya before Trevelyan destroys it.
Bond and Natalya travel to Cuba, after Boris is traced to a location within the island's jungles. While flying over the area, the pair are shot down. Onatopp attacks them after they crash land, but Bond kills her during the fight. The pair soon uncover a hidden base beneath a large lake, concealing a satellite dish, and proceed to infiltrate it. Bond is captured while trying to rig explosives to destroy the base, and learns from Trevelyan that he intends to use GoldenEye to devastate London in order to conceal the theft of financial records from the Bank of England, meaning that, in Trevelyan's words, "the United Kingdom will re-enter the Stone Age" and "learn the price of betrayal – inflation adjusted for 1945". While Natalya is captured as well, she manages to hack into the satellite and reprogram it to initiate atmospheric re-entry and thus destroy itself. When Boris loses his cool trying to undo her programming, Bond uses the moment to trigger a grenade, concealed in a pen supplied by Q, to allow him and Natalya to escape.
To prevent Boris regaining control of the satellite, Bond proceeds to sabotage the dish's antenna by jamming its gears. Trevelyan tries to stop him, and the ensuing fight between the two culminates in Trevelyan plummeting to the ground, mortally wounding him. Natalya soon rescues him in a commandeered helicopter, moments before the antenna malfunctions and explodes, destroying the base and killing its personnel, with Trevelyan killed by falling debris, and Boris killed by ruptured liquid nitrogen canisters. After landing somewhere safe, the pair prepare to enjoy some solitude together, but are interrupted by the arrival of Wade and a team of U.S. Marines, who escort them to Guantanamo base.
