Octopussy
1983
Roger Moore
In a pre-title sequence unrelated to the rest of the movie, James Bond (in disguise as Col. Luis Toro) infiltrates a military base in an unnamed Latin American country. He plants a bomb inside a jet but is immediately captured. Confronted by the actual Col. Toro, Bond is then taken away. An associate named Bianca distracts Bond's captors and Bond escapes, using a minijet supplied by Q. A missile is launched at him, and Bond avoids it by flying into an airplane hangar, which the missile then destroys. With the jet running out of fuel, Bond pulls up to a gas station.
After fleeing from knife-throwing twin assassins Mischka and Grishka in East Berlin, mortally wounded British agent 009, dressed as a circus clown and carrying a counterfeit Fabergé egg, dies in the residence of the British ambassador. MI6 immediately suspects Soviet involvement and, after seeing the genuine Fabergé egg appear at an auction in London, sends James Bond to identify the seller. At the auction, Bond swaps the real egg for the fake one and subsequently engages in a bidding war with exiled Afghan prince Kamal Khan, forcing Khan to pay £500,000 for the fake egg. Bond follows Khan back to his palace in Rajasthan, India (although, in-story dialogue establishes the setting as New Delhi), where Bond defeats Khan in a game of backgammon. Bond escapes with his contact Vijay, foiling the attempts of Khan's bodyguard Gobinda to kill Bond. Later, Bond is seduced by Khan's associate Magda, and notices that she has a blue-ringed octopus tattoo. Bond permits Magda to steal the Fabergé egg he had swiped from the auction, fitted with a listening and tracking device installed by Q. Gobinda knocks Bond unconscious and takes him to Khan's palace. After Bond escapes from his room, he listens in on the bug and discovers that Khan is working with Orlov, a Soviet general who is seeking to expand Soviet domination to Western Europe.
Bond infiltrates a floating palace in Udaipur, and there finds its owner, Octopussy, a wealthy businesswoman, smuggler and associate of Khan. She also leads the Octopus cult, of which Magda is a member. Octopussy has a personal connection with Bond: she is the daughter of the late Major Dexter-Smythe, whom Bond was assigned to arrest for treason. Bond allowed the Major to commit suicide rather than face trial, and Octopussy thanks him for offering her father an honorable alternative, inviting Bond to stay on as her guest. Earlier in Khan's palace and later in Octopussy's palace, Bond finds out that Orlov has been supplying Khan with priceless Soviet treasures, replacing them with replicas while Khan has been smuggling the genuine objects into the West via Octopussy's circus troupe. Orlov is planning to meet Khan at Karl-Marx-Stadt (Chemnitz) in East Germany, where the circus is scheduled to perform. Khan hires mercenaries to kill Bond, but Bond and Octopussy gain the upper hand when the assassins break into the palace. Bond learns from Q that Vijay has been killed by the thugs.
Travelling to East Germany, Bond infiltrates the circus and finds out that Orlov has replaced the Soviet treasures with a nuclear warhead, primed to explode during the circus show at a US Air Force base in West Germany. The explosion would force Europe into seeking unilateral disarmament in the belief that the bomb belonged to the US and was detonated at the airbase accidentally, leaving the unprotected borders open to a Soviet invasion. Bond takes Orlov's car, drives it along the railroad tracks and boards the moving circus train. Orlov gives chase, but is killed at the border by East German guards after they mistake Orlov for a defector. Bond kills Mischka and Grischka, and after falling from the train, commandeers a car to get to the airbase. Bond penetrates the base and disguises himself as a clown to evade the West German police. He attempts to convince Octopussy that Khan has betrayed her and she realizes that she has been tricked. She assists Bond in deactivating the warhead.
Bond and Octopussy return separately to India. Bond arrives at Khan's palace just as Octopussy and her troops launch an assault on the grounds. Octopussy attempts to kill Khan, but is captured by Gobinda. While Octopussy's team, led by Magda, overpower Khan's guards, Khan and Gobinda abandon the palace, taking Octopussy as a hostage. Bond pursues them as they attempt to escape in their airplane, clinging to the fuselage and disabling an engine and the elevator panel. In the subsequent struggle with Bond, Gobinda takes a deadly plummet off the roof of the plane, and Bond and Octopussy jump off the plane onto a nearby cliff only seconds before Khan fatally crashes into a mountain. While the Minister of Defence and General Gogol discuss the transport of the jewelry, Bond recuperates with Octopussy aboard her private boat in India.
